"pid"	"title"	"date created"	"creator"	"description"	"abstract"	"personal name"	"corporate name"	"geographic name"	"subject"	"department"	"embargo"	"has description"	"is member of""draft:sd.0000343"	"U.S. Military Cooperation with Kurdistan's Peshmerga"	""	"Hawezy, Lawen"	"Submitted in partial fulfillment of the degree Master of Arts at the Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy. "	" The Kurdish Security Forces, Peshmerga, have defended Kurdistan throughout decades and against consecutive threats posed by the tyrants who have ruled Iraq. After the failure of Iraq and Syria to resist ISIS and the latter's control over vast areas, Kurdistan too became under threat and the only effective force that came to its defense was the Peshmerga. This relative success of the Peshmerga has raised their profile internationally 1 as the only effective force on the ground fighting ISIS. While ISIS is becoming stronger due to the U.S. weapons it takes from Iraq, the support for the Peshmerga is limited and burdened because of concerns of an independent Kurdistan. There is need for further understanding of the Peshmerga and why the U.S. should provide a more direct and stronger form of support and cooperation. Not only with the objective of defeating ISIS, but also for the long term strategic security partnership and the protection of Kurdistan as an island of stability in the Middle East."	""	""	""	"MA"	""	""	"info:fedora/tufts:UA069.001.DO.UA015"	"info:fedora/tufts:UA069.001.DO.UA015""draft:sd.0000342"	"The Impact of Policy Responses to the Eurozone Crisis on Democracy, Accountability and the Rule of Law in Europe"	""	"Ressy, Raymond"	"Submitted in partial fulfillment of the degree Master of Arts at the Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy. "	" This paper examines the extent to which policies implemented by institutions of the European Union (EU) have been consistent with maintaining and enhancing political accountability within Europe. The paper contends that the particular policies adopted in the midst of the euro crisis prioritised short-term effectiveness and that the impact on accountability (or any limits which an awareness of accountability might impose) have not been part of the mix of considerations taken into account in formulating policy."	""	""	""	"MA"	""	""	"info:fedora/tufts:UA069.001.DO.UA015"	"info:fedora/tufts:UA069.001.DO.UA015""draft:sd.0000341"	"Testing prod push of new public health capstones"	"2015"	"Korcynski, Michael T."	"Submitted in partial fulfillment of the degree JD/MPH at Tufts Public Health and Professional Degree Program. "	" Testing that this new code pushed to prod works.  If future me comes across this item, I should purge it."	""	""	""	"JD/MPH"	"UA157.005"	""	"info:fedora/tufts:UA069.001.DO.UA157"	"info:fedora/tufts:UA069.001.DO.UA157""draft:sd.0000340"	"(Re)New Your City, New York City: Transporting Transformation Hubs"	""	"Riel, Rayn B."	"New York's Metropolitan Transportation Authority (MTA) is constantly running trains, but it is also constantly running a deficit. Unlike profitable transportation companies, such as the Hong Kong Mass Transit Railway (MTR), the MTA has few valuable real estate assets which could be adequately transformed into transit-oriented and transit-owned joint development hubs. Similar to other U.S. public transportation agencies, space for pragmatic and profitable commercial activities - including shops and offices operating on agency-owned land - is limited to a few select stations, yards, concourses, and passageways, because most profitable assets from private predecessors were sold decades ago. However, while the MTA's ability to remain revenue-positive or self-sufficient through real estate development is stymied, the MTA has been capitalizing upon its few existing assets for additional revenue. This process, however, in coordination with the City of New York in order to develop value capture mechanisms, is lengthy and cumbersome. The MTA has not developed the resources needed to develop property. This Senior Honors Thesis elucidates how the MTA can overcome organizational barriers in order to contextually 'transport' the MTA's limited portfolio of assets into 'transformation hubs', and in order to do so, advocate for a privatized, profitable, and independent real estate development division of the MTA, chartered for real estate development. While there is 'room' for improvement, institutional barriers ranging from NIMBYism and a fear of density to antiquated zoning laws, financing requirements, and a lack of communication among the City, State, MTA, and developers would need to be transcended through coordinated reformation efforts. The MTA's collective mindset must be renewed for a 21st century narrative, in which the MTA also considers itself a top tier real estate developer."	" "	""	""	""	"Center for Interdisciplinary Studies"	"UA005.043"	""	"info:fedora/tufts:UA069.001.DO.UA005"	"info:fedora/tufts:UA069.001.DO.UA005""draft:sd.0000339"	"An Adaptive fNIRS-based BCI for Learning Music on the Piano"	""	"Oleson, Kurt B"	"Thesis conducted for Cognitive and Brain Sciences through the department of Psychology and Human Compute Interaction. This experiment sought to utilize an fNIRS-based BCI in a learning environment. The interface tested was aimed to improve learning speed and accuracy. Specifically, this study focused on learning a piece of music on the piano. The BCI used cognitive load measurements in order to adjust the difficulty of music presented to participants in real time."	" "	""	""	""	"Dept. of Psychology"	"UA005.006"	""	"info:fedora/tufts:UA069.001.DO.UA005"	"info:fedora/tufts:UA069.001.DO.UA005""draft:sd.0000338"	"The Holocaust on Screen: Examining the lens of genocide, tragedy, and remembrance and the making of the film 'The Inheritors: A Return to Bergen-Belsen'"	""	"Navon, Maya"	"A critical examination of the Holocaust film genre and its most notable works and a production log detailing the filmmaking process of the documentary 'The Inheritors: A Return to Bergen-Belsen.' "	" "	""	""	""	"Dept. of International Letters and Visual Studies"	"UA005.033"	""	"info:fedora/tufts:UA069.001.DO.UA005"	"info:fedora/tufts:UA069.001.DO.UA005""draft:sd.0000337"	"Policy Recommendations for Mexican Consulates in the United States regarding the LGBT community"	""	"Calva Ruiz, Vanessa"	"Submitted in partial fulfillment of the degree Master of Arts at the Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy. "	" The changes on marriage equality and Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual and Transgender (LGBT) rights in the United States represent an opportunity to develop strategic consular protection and community outreach policies to engage with the Mexican LGBT community. The largest concentration of Mexicans living abroad resides in the U.S., thus the Mexican government has to take into account these new circumstances and seize the opportunity to develop and expand its programs and services to better address the necessities of its LGBT population in the country. "	""	""	""	"MA"	""	""	"info:fedora/tufts:UA069.001.DO.UA015"	"info:fedora/tufts:UA069.001.DO.UA015""draft:sd.0000336"	"(no subject): The Queer Contingency of Correspondent Being"	""	"McDaniel, Sarah A"	"Correspondence, a relation of mutual response, is a queer affair. Because response only occurs in the future, correspondence is predicated upon and invested in a future that is continuously and indefinitely deferred. To be a correspondent -- to be co-respondent -- is, I argue, to occupy a contingent and queer position: once one has entered into a correspondence, one has entered into a state of indefinite wait, always anticipating a letter that may never come. This thesis seeks to agitate perceptions, readings, and understandings of correspondence by insisting upon its queerness and incoherence. On the one hand, I explore epistolary correspondence as something more (or something other) than a set of pure biographical data or a coherent narrative. On the other, I explore correspondent relationality as theoretical praxis or reading practice -- in applying it to texts not specifically epistolary in form as a way of examining the relation of queerness and contingency to text and reading more generally. Engaging two principal theoretical traditions -- queer theory and deconstructionist and post-structuralist literary theory -- I explore in each chapter a different figure for the indefinite non-definition of correspondent and literary relationality: suture (of letters, literature, or identity), 'the fold' (of the letter, of a societal margin, of/as 'queer community'), and the ever-receding line of the horizon."	" "	""	""	""	"Dept. of English"	"UA005.005"	"2016-07-18T11:50:49-04:00"	"info:fedora/tufts:UA069.001.DO.UA005"	"info:fedora/tufts:UA069.001.DO.UA005""draft:sd.0000335"	"The Resettlement Process as a Site of Structural Power and Narrative Production "	""	"Spink, Lauren A."	"Submitted in partial fulfillment of the degree Master of Arts in Law and Diplomacy at the Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy. "	" This paper explores the concept of resettlement agencies and officers as important social agents with the ability to shape refugee narratives of persecution and influence social relations."	""	""	""	"MALD"	""	""	"info:fedora/tufts:UA069.001.DO.UA015"	"info:fedora/tufts:UA069.001.DO.UA015""draft:sd.0000334"	"The Resettlement Process as a Site of Structural Power and Narrative Production"	""	"Spink, Lauren A."	"Submitted in partial fulfillment of the degree Master of Arts at the Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy. "	" This paper explores the concept of resettlement agencies and officers as important social agents with the power to shape refugee narratives of persecution and influence social relations."	""	""	""	"MA"	""	""	"info:fedora/tufts:UA069.001.DO.UA015"	"info:fedora/tufts:UA069.001.DO.UA015""draft:sd.0000333"	"Optimization of a bacterial expression system for the purification and activity analysis of a Caenorhabditis elegans chitin deacetylase"	""	"Chirunomula, Molly M."	"Parasitic nematodes cause severely debilitating diseases such as lymphatic filariasis and onchocerciasis. One potential therapeutic target for the treatment or prevention of nematode infections is chitin deacetylase (CDA). CDA converts the biologically important carbohydrate polymer of chitin (beta-1,4-linked N-acetylglucosamine) to chitosan. The effectiveness of this process has been correlated to healthy nematode development. The aim of this study was to generate soluble, purified, and active CDA for further characterization through various activity assays. Variations on a bacterial expression system were constructed using the pET22b and pGEX-4T-2 bacterial vectors and the Caenorhabditis elegans CDA gene F48E3.8c. Host cell cultures carrying distinct versions of the recombinant plasmids were extracted using a variety of induction and lysis conditions. Expression of soluble CDA was accomplished using the full F48E3.8c gene, as well as a truncated version of the gene. Enzymatic activity was successfully restored following the denaturation and crude purification of CDA embedded in polyacrylamide gels. Further experiments are required to optimize the purification of active protein in solution."	" "	""	""	""	"Dept. of Biology"	"UA005.010"	"2017-07-01T09:47:33-04:00"	"info:fedora/tufts:UA069.001.DO.UA005"	"info:fedora/tufts:UA069.001.DO.UA005"